README.md, before:

# Status Dashboard

## Trying it out

```
tox -e py39
source .tox/py39/bin/activate
export FLASK_APP=status_dashboard.py
flask db upgrade  # Initialize DB
flask --debug run

flask db stamp head # to start the upgrade db models
```

## Bootstraping

It is possible to bootstrap DB with some initial data.  
To create and purge the test data run the command:
```
flask bootstrap provision
flask bootstrap purge
```

## Architecture

As stupidly simple as possible:

- flask to impement "API" and render web
- web pages without JavaScript logic (kiss and working with JS blockers)
- DB (using through sqlalchemy)
- bootstrap
- auth to be done with OpenID connect
- services are representing what should be verified (working or not)
- service_category - meta grouping of services into groups
- regions - different services are existing in regions (many to many relation)
- incidents - entry about issues affecting certain regions and certain services
- incident_status - change history (or incident updates)


Initial sketch diagram (no 100% matching reality)

```mermaid
classDiagram

    class Incident{
      -int id
      +date start
      +date end
      +string text
      +enum impact [maintenance, minor, major, outage]
      -int user_id

      +get_incidents(start, end, impact)
    }

    class IncidentStatuses{
        -int incident_id
        +date time
        +enum status [scheduled, investigating, identified, watching, fixed]
        +string text
        -int user_id

        get_incident_statuses(incident_id)
    }

    class IncidentServiceRelation{
        -int incident_id
        -int service_id
    }

    class IncidentRegionRelation {
        -int incident_id
        -int region_id
    }

    class Service {
      -int id
      +string name
      +string category
    }

    class Region{
        -int id
        +string name
    }

    class Operator {
        -int user_id
        
    }
```

A real data model is however represented in https://github.com/stackmon/status-dashboard/blob/main/app/models.py

# Developing

Flask requires environment variable `FLASK_APP` to be set to
`status-dashboard.py` or this variable can be passed to every flask command
invocation.

## Environment

In a regular case it is recommended to rely on tox for managing all virtual environments.

`tox -e py3 --notest` will create new python virtual environment and install
all project dependencies.

Once environment is prepared it is required to source into it `source
.tox/py3/bin/activate` before doing any further steps.

## DB

For the development builtin sqlite database is absolutely sufficient.

`flask db upgrade` command with install default DB schema.

## Data

Test catalog data is placed in the `app/tests/config/catalog.yaml`. This file
should be copied into the instance directory (`cwd/instance`) and command
`flask bootstrap provision` should be executed.

Commit message:

Fix/optimization (#98)
Fix/optimization

Added:
Caching (RedisCache or SimpleCache)
The follow routes are now cached:
 "/" "/index"
 "/incidents/<incident_id>"
 "/history"
 "/availability"

Debugging expanded:
  If the RedisCache is used, then the connection to the 
  redis server is checked before creating an app instance,
  if the check fails, then the app will use SimpleDimple

Benchmark test:
$ flask --debug run --host=0.0.0.0
$ ab -n 3000 -c 100 http://127.0.0.0:5000/

Benchmarking 127.0.0.0 (be patient)
Completed 300 requests
Completed 600 requests
Completed 900 requests
Completed 1200 requests
Completed 1500 requests
Completed 1800 requests
Completed 2100 requests
Completed 2400 requests
Completed 2700 requests
Completed 3000 requests
Finished 3000 requests

Server Software:        Werkzeug/3.0.1
Server Hostname:        127.0.0.0
Server Port:            5000

Document Path:          /
Document Length:        101946 bytes

Concurrency Level:      100
Time taken for tests:   4.010 seconds
Complete requests:      3000
Failed requests:        0
Total transferred:      306369000 bytes
HTML transferred:       305838000 bytes
Requests per second:    748.07 [#/sec] (mean)
Time per request:       133.678 [ms] (mean)
Time per request:       1.337 [ms] (mean, across all concurrent requests)
Transfer rate:          74604.17 [Kbytes/sec] received

Connection Times (ms)
              min  mean[+/-sd] median   max
Connect:        0    0   0.5      0       4
Processing:    24  127  12.5    126     158
Waiting:        9  115  12.5    114     146
Total:         28  127  12.1    126     158

Percentage of the requests served within a certain time (ms)
  50%    126
  66%    132
  75%    135
  80%    136
  90%    139
  95%    141
  98%    143
  99%    144
 100%    158 (longest request)

Reviewed-by: Olha Kashyrina
Reviewed-by: Vladimir Vshivkov
Reviewed-by: Vladimir Hasko <vladimirhasko@gmail.com>
Reviewed-by: Ilia Bakhterev
Reviewed-by: Anton Sidelnikov

README.md, after:

# Status Dashboard

## Trying it out

```
tox -e py39
source .tox/py39/bin/activate
export FLASK_APP=status_dashboard.py
flask db upgrade  # Initialize DB
flask --debug run

flask db stamp head # to start the upgrade db models
```
### Using redis for caching and storing sessions
It needs to run with redis;  
Environment variables can be configured using the "SDB" prefix.
```
"SDB_CACHE_TYPE"
"SDB_CACHE_KEY_PREFIX"
"SDB_CACHE_REDIS_HOST"
"SDB_CACHE_REDIS_PORT"
"SDB_CACHE_REDIS_URL"
"SDB_CACHE_REDIS_PASSWORD"
"SDB_CACHE_DEFAULT_TIMEOUT"
# session variables:
"SDB_SESSION_TYPE"
"SDB_REDIS_PASS"
"SDB_REDIS_PORT"
"SDB_REDIS_HOST"
```

## Bootstraping

It is possible to bootstrap DB with some initial data.  
To create and purge the test data run the command:
```
flask bootstrap provision
flask bootstrap purge
```

## Architecture

As stupidly simple as possible:

- flask to impement "API" and render web
- web pages without JavaScript logic (kiss and working with JS blockers)
- DB (using through sqlalchemy)
- bootstrap
- auth to be done with OpenID connect
- services are representing what should be verified (working or not)
- service_category - meta grouping of services into groups
- regions - different services are existing in regions (many to many relation)
- incidents - entry about issues affecting certain regions and certain services
- incident_status - change history (or incident updates)


Initial sketch diagram (no 100% matching reality)

```mermaid
classDiagram

    class Incident{
      -int id
      +date start
      +date end
      +string text
      +enum impact [maintenance, minor, major, outage]
      -int user_id

      +get_incidents(start, end, impact)
    }

    class IncidentStatuses{
        -int incident_id
        +date time
        +enum status [scheduled, investigating, identified, watching, fixed]
        +string text
        -int user_id

        get_incident_statuses(incident_id)
    }

    class IncidentServiceRelation{
        -int incident_id
        -int service_id
    }

    class IncidentRegionRelation {
        -int incident_id
        -int region_id
    }

    class Service {
      -int id
      +string name
      +string category
    }

    class Region{
        -int id
        +string name
    }

    class Operator {
        -int user_id
        
    }
```

A real data model is however represented in https://github.com/stackmon/status-dashboard/blob/main/app/models.py

# Developing

Flask requires environment variable `FLASK_APP` to be set to
`status-dashboard.py` or this variable can be passed to every flask command
invocation.

## Environment

In a regular case it is recommended to rely on tox for managing all virtual environments.

`tox -e py3 --notest` will create new python virtual environment and install
all project dependencies.

Once environment is prepared it is required to source into it `source
.tox/py3/bin/activate` before doing any further steps.

## DB

For the development builtin sqlite database is absolutely sufficient.

`flask db upgrade` command with install default DB schema.

## Data

Test catalog data is placed in the `app/tests/config/catalog.yaml`. This file
should be copied into the instance directory (`cwd/instance`) and command
`flask bootstrap provision` should be executed.
